One of the strangest feelings in the world was discovering a branch of my family werent Jewish. 
Growing up, Id always known I was Jewish. 
My family celebrated traditions, I became Bar Mitzvah on my thirteenth birthday, and my grandparents knew they were Jewish, even down to the ancient tribe their families belong to. 
But upon discovering my family name in Mexican Baptism records, my story suddenly became more interesting than Id ever thought it was, and my knowledge of my genealogy became muddy, broken, and confused. 
Id talked to my parents about their ancestors plenty of times why hadnt I heard about this?
In my confusion, I asked what had happened. 
I talked to my family about it, and the obscurity lifted as I learned of the story of perseverance and struggle my ancestors family experienced. 
My second great grandmother wasnt born Jewish, but had converted because she discovered her ancestors were Spanish Jews. 
Theyd narrowly escaped antiJewish laws in mainland Spain, and found their way to colonial Mexico, where they could practice more freely. 
But as time went on, they lost the meaning of their rituals. 
My grandmother remembers hearing how her family would light candles every Friday night as a tradition, not knowing it was one of the holiest rituals of the Jewish faith.
Learning about how my family came to reconnect with their Jewish faith, and learning the story of how I came to be both Mexican and Jewish showed me the resilience of my tradition that has persevered over the generations despite persecution. 
I became hooked on piecing together every possible part of the incredible story of my ancestors, and it sparked an interest in a passion project for me putting together my family history, and discovering where I came from.
Ive spent hours combing through documents, looking for clues and piecing together dates of birth, death, and marriage, finding family members I never knew of, and trying to discover where I came from. 
Ive spoken to grandparents, cousins, and other elders in my family to put together the truest form of my family story. 
The most fascinating part is finding documents in obscure databases, like finding my great grandfathers World War II draft card, where he changed his last name to the one I have today, finding a fiftyyearold photo of my greataunt participating in the same youth group Ive been part of throughout high school, and discovering an ancestor with my first name, even though I wasnt named after anyone.
Genealogy has taught me more about my heritage, but more importantly, it has brought me a lot closer to my family. 
Distant cousins have become closer and more familiar, and my relationships with my parents and grandparents are deeper and tighter than ever before because of the conversations weve shared about their lives, families, and experiences. 
Before I found this passion project, I felt separated from my family, but as I research and discover more about each branch of my family tree, it makes me feel closer to my roots. 
I now recognize the importance of family history The reunions and the goodbyes, the love stories and the new members of the family, and the life lessons passed from generation to generation. 
And as I go into college and transition into a new chapter of my life, I know that its time to start thinking about the ways Ill inspire the next budding flowers on the tree in leading by example prioritizing meaningful family connections, discovering history from a humanized and personal lens, and persevering in the face of all types of adversity, just like my grandmother and her family did. 
I know that the work I do keeps my loved ones close to me and keeps my heritage alive, and that the stories of the past will inspire the world of the future, just as theyve inspired me.
