I went into high school hopeful, full of motivation, energy, determination, and drive to succeed. 
Id always been the gifted kid in middle school, so what did I have to lose coming to LASA? 
Id certainly be in my element and Id certainly fit right in.
Junior year, coming off of COVID, I had high expectations and high hopes. 
The high school experience so far had been positive for what it was, I loved my classes and I made some friends freshman year. 
Sure, playing basketball for LBJ was one of the most negative experiences of my entire life but I was willing to put it away to focus on the future. 
Then, everything went down the drain. 
I noticed what it was like to be a social exile. 
From day one at LASA Id been inserting myself into friend groups and conversations to try and become a part of something larger than myself in this community (if it can be called one) and this culminated in sitting on the outside of friend groups constantly, even literally pulling a chair up to a table of people and being forced to sit on the outside even though the group seemed welcoming. 
I noticed everyone else had a group. 
I noticed everyone felt welcome here. 
I could have been wrong but for a number of reasons I will not specify I was fixated on the people with friends who were happy and socially successful. 
Meanwhile I was the last seat on the basketball bench from an injury, my classes were beginning to feel impossible and completely self taught, and my friends outside of LASA had stopped talking to me. 
Everything was going wrong. 
Then one day, I came out of a basketball game after a nasty turnover, sat on the bench, and when the buzzer went off, I could barely stand. 
Id suffered another injury, this one more severe and eventually requiring a multi faceted surgery that involved reconstructing my kneecap. 
I spent a week out of school. 
No calls. 
No texts. 
I spoke to one person for seven days and it was my mother. 
To add insult to literal injury, my first day back at school summarized my entire LASA experience. 
I spent the day catching up on assignments. 
I had to take two calculus tests in one day. 
I ended up being late to almost all of my classes because the elevators werent working. 
Someone was using the accessible stall in every bathroom I tried at the school, and not to mention, there was a quarter inch of water on the ground in said bathrooms, rendering my crutches not only useless but dangerously slippery. 
Then, the icing on the cake I stumbled with my wet crutches through the maze of a building covered in barriers for AP testing to the gym for the basketball class period, which had no chairs in the room, so a week post surgery, I slowly dragged a chair from across the hall into the small gym. 
And the first time Id seen the basketball team in a week went as well as it could have the entire team, including the coach, staring at me, some with jaws wide open, watching me struggle to pull a chair across the gym floor, not a single one offering help or even moving out of the way.
This is a toxic hell on Earth of a school. 
There were good moments and I cannot deny that the education I was given here will help me in college and beyond. 
But I would be lying if I said that theres anything LASA related I want to do post graduation. 
Hopefully four years in North Carolina will be able to reverse four years of social and emotional torture I endured at the Liberal Arts and Science Academy.